DRAFT:  QA intake process (#25386)
fleetdm/fleet: handbook/company/product-groups.md

- Then, it will be [drafted](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/product-groups#drafting) (planned).
- Next, it will be [implemented](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/product-groups#implementing) and [released](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/engineering#release-process).

> > Occasionally, a contributor outside of the [product groups](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/product-groups#current-product-groups) (open source contributor, member of the Customer Success team, etc.) will implement a change that was prioritized and drafted. On the user story for these changes, add the product group label (e.g. `#g-endpoint-ops`, `#g-mdm`), the `:release` label, and notify the product group's Engineer Manager to make sure the changes go through testing (QA) before release.

Author: change to `:product` label

Once reproduced, QA documents the reproduction steps in the description and moves it to the reproduced state. If QA or the engineering manager feels the bug report may be expected behavior, or if clarity is required on the intended behavior, it is assigned to the group's product manager. [See on GitHub](https://github.com/fleetdm/fleet/issues?q=archived%3Afalse+org%3Afleetdm+is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Abug+label%3A%3Areproduce+sort%3Acreated-asc+).

#### Reproduced

QA has reproduced the issue successfully. It should now be transferred to engineering.

Remove the “reproduce” label, add the following labels:

1. The `~released bug` label if the bug is in a published version of Fleet, or `~unreleased bug` if it is not yet published.

> 2. The `:incoming` label indicates to the EM that it is a new bug.

Author: remove

> 3. The `:release` label will place the bug on the team's release board.

Author: use `:product` label

> **Fast track for Fleeties:** Fleeties do not have to wait for QA to reproduce the bug. If you're confident it's reproducible, it's a bug, and the reproduction steps are well-documented, it can be moved directly to the reproduced state.

#### In product drafting (as needed)

> If a bug requires input from product the `:product` label is added, the `:release` label is removed, and the PM is assigned to the issue. It will stay in this state until product closes the bug, or removes the `:product` label and assigns to an EM.

Author: change

#### In engineering

> A bug is in engineering after it has been assigned to a product team and reproduced. If a bug meets the criteria for a [critical bug](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/engineering#critical-bugs), the `~critical bug` label is added, and the EM follows the [critical bug notification process](https://github.com/fleetdm/fleet/blob/main/docs/Contributing/Releasing-Fleet.md#critical-bug-notification-process).

Author: bug is in engineering when it has a `:release` label.  (unreleased bugs go straight to release boards)

> During daily standup, the EM will filter the board to only `:incoming` bugs and review with the team. The EM will remove the `:incoming` label, prioritize the bug in the "Ready" column, unassign themselves, and assign an engineer or leave it unassigned for the first available engineer.

Author: remove

> When fixing the bug, if the proposed solution requires changes that would affect the user experience (UI, API, or CLI), notify the EM and PM to align on the acceptability of the change. The steps to reproduce will generally function as the QA test plan, but if the proposed solution requires additional testing, the assigned engineer and QA will work together to ensure an approved test plan is in place.

Author: product already should have entered input here, no need to notify EM/PM

Quickly reproducing bug reports is a [priority for Fleet](https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/why-this-way#why-make-it-obvious-when-stuff-breaks). When a new bug is created using the [bug report form](https://github.com/fleetdm/fleet/issues/new?assignees=&labels=bug%2C%3Areproduce&template=bug-report.md&title=), it is in the "inbox" state.

> At this state, the bug review DRI (QA) is responsible for going through the inbox and tagging the correct product group, documenting reproduction steps, asking for more reproduction details from the reporter, or asking the product team for more guidance.  QA has **1 business day** to move the bug to the next step (reproduced).

Author: this is the "meat" of the process change

> At this state, the bug review DRI (QA) is responsible for going through the inbox and tagging the correct product group, documenting reproduction steps, asking for more reproduction details from the reporter, or asking the product team for more guidance.  QA has **1 business day** to move the bug to the next step (reproduced).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At this state, each Quality Assurance Engineer (QA) is responsible for going through the [newly reported bugs](https://github.com/fleetdm/fleet/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Abug+label%3A%3Areproduce) and tagging the correct product group, documenting reproduction steps, asking for more reproduction details from the reporter, or asking the product team for more guidance.  QA has **1 business day** to move the bug to the next step (reproduced).
```

Author: new filter removing product teams from the "inbox" state:
```
is:open is:issue label:bug label::reproduce -label:#g-software -label:#g-mdm -label:#g-orchestration
```
